
<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

![](https://github.com/reprohack/reprohack-hq/raw/master/assets/reprohack-banner.png)

# Welcome to the **ReproHack @ SESYNC \#ReproHack**\!

<br>

#### :date: **6 Feb 2020**

#### :alarm\_clock: **9am - 5pm**

##### :round\_pushpin: **Cave Conference Room**

##### :earth\_africa: [**SESYNC**](https://www.openstreetmap.org/?mlat=39&mlon=-76.5#map=19/39/-76.5)

-----

<br>

We are all excited by the progress made by many authors to **make their
papers reproducible by publishing associated code and data**.

We know how challenging it can be so we **want to showcase the value of
the practice**, both for original authors and as a learning experience
for those who attempt to reproduce the work.

It’s imperative to note that **ReproHacks are by no means an attempt to
criticise or discredit work**. We see reproduction as **beneficial
scientific activity in itself**, with useful outcomes for authors and
valuable learning experiences for the participants and the research
community as a whole.

We are hoping to use this ReproHack as a learning opportunity - to learn
about doing reproductions and to learn how our own work can benefit from
this effort.

-----

## **Please do these preliminary steps:**

### **Nominate a paper by January 27**

We invite you to nominate papers that have both associated **code** and
**data** publicly available. The following are links to previous
ReproHacks with proposed papers or other sources for possible papers;
you are welcome to nominate off of those lists, or other papers, as
well. Rachael and Kelly will confirm that all nominations have both data
and code available, and then all participants will have the opportunity
to vote on the paper we will work
on.

<https://reprohacknl.github.io/ReproHack/>

<https://curatescience.org/app/>

<br>

### **[Download and read the selected paper by February 6](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1111/gcb.12587)**

We have selected a paper about climate change an potato blight that has
published code and data publicly available.

**Climate change may have limited effect on global risk of potato late
blight.**  
Sparks, A. H., Forbes, G. A, Hijmans, R. J., & Garrett K. A. (2014).
Climate change may have limited effect on global risk of potato late
blight. Global Change Biology, <doi:10.1111/gcb.12587>.

submitted for a previous ReproHack by Adam Sparks

**Why should we attempt to reproduce this paper?** This is a two-for
one. The repository contains code for companion papers, the model
development and the model implementation and analysis. As the repository
notes, some data are not freely available so I’ve made an effort to
allow the paper to be replicated as best possible with what’s available.

Paper URL: <https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/gcb.12587>

Data URL:
<https://figshare.com/articles/Supporting_files_for_Climate_change_may_have_limited_effect_on_global_risk_of_potato_late_blight/1066070>

Code URL:
<https://github.com/adamhsparks/Global-Late-Blight-MetaModelling>

<br>

We will **dig into exciting science**, learn more about
**reproducibility**, and working with **other people’s code and data**,
see how we can improve the reproducibiliyt of our research process. Hope
you can join us\!

-----

## **On the day**

Come to SESYNC just like normal\! We’ll all work on this project for the
day\! It’ll be great\!

While this is not a Carpentries event, we are modeling it on Carpentries
policies. As such the event is governed by the [Carpentries Code of
Conduct](https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/policies/code-of-conduct.html)
and you should read it before participating. By participating, you are
expected to uphold this code.

### **Participants**

#### **Introduction & Welcome**

#### **1. Project review**

#### **2. Work on your project\!**

Follow any instructions/documentation associated with the papers and try
and reproduce the work. As you work through your paper, keep in mind the
main points on which feedback to the authors will provided,
**Reproducibility**, **Documentation** and **Reusability**. It might
help to have a look at the [feedback
form](https://forms.gle/Q2DengC6QrMyVXP16) before you begin and keep
notes during. Feel free to use the event hackpad for that.

Throughout the day we’ll discuss progress and troubleshoot any sticking
points.

Should we finish reproducing our paper quickly, we might want to
consider attempting to **replicate** the results, for example, if the
code is in R consider translating the analysis to python and examining
whether we are getting the same results. Such a contribution would be
appropriate for publication in the **ReScience C** journal\! Have a look
at the journals [website](http://rescience.github.io/write/) for further
details.

#### **3. Leave feedback for the authors**

Please complete the [**Reproducibility feedback
form**](https://forms.gle/Q2DengC6QrMyVXP16). Please also remember to be
kind and constructive. Reproducibilty is hard and all authors submitting
their papers have been incredibly brave. Here’s an
[example](https://github.com/annakrystalli/write-ups/blob/master/assets/OpenCon_ReproHack%20feedback_form.pdf)
of feedback to
authors.

#### **4. Feedback to the group on your experiences**

#### **Closing Remarks**

-----

<a rel="license" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/"><img alt="Creative Commons License" style="border-width:0" src="https://i.creativecommons.org/l/by/4.0/88x31.png" /></a><br />This
work is licensed under a
<a rel="license" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/">Creative
Commons Attribution 4.0 International License</a>.
